add-ons/cedexis.markdown, before:

---
title: Cedexis
weight: 9
--
Improve application availability and performance using Cedexis Openmix data-driven global load balancing.  For enterprises that join the Cedexis Radar community, the free Radar data feed (real time measurement of cloud availability and latency, as seen by 100s of millions of real end users each day) can be a primary source of cloud performance metrics. 
 
The Openmix service allows highly flexible load-balancing decisions to be made dynamically, based on a wide variety of real-time data-feeds (this could be data you provide).  Configuration scripts can support such obvious methodologies as sending the user to the fastest provider, or as subtle and sophisticated as factoring in any thing you can collect or think of (Time of day, cost, contractual commitments, weighting servers, capacity, BTU power usage, Electricity cost etc.)
 
Any variation of Load balancing between cloud regions (EC2-VA and EC2-OR), different cloud vendors (EC2 and Rackspace) and CDNs are all fully supported. 
 
Openmix Load Balancing App Implementation – Please see our GitHub repository https://github.com/cedexis/openmixapplib/wiki
Example Openmix Application Library - http://developers.cedexis.com/

Commit message:

updated cedexis doc (trying to debug)

add-ons/cedexis.markdown, after:

---
title: Cedexis
weight: 9
---

## Introduction to Cedexis

Improve application availability and performance using Cedexis Openmix data-driven global load balancing.  For enterprises that join the Cedexis Radar community, the free Radar data feed (real time measurement of cloud availability and latency, as seen by 100s of millions of real end users each day) can be a primary source of cloud performance metrics. 
 
The Openmix service allows highly flexible load-balancing decisions to be made dynamically, based on a wide variety of real-time data-feeds (this could be data you provide).  Configuration scripts can support such obvious methodologies as sending the user to the fastest provider, or as subtle and sophisticated as factoring in any thing you can collect or think of (Time of day, cost, contractual commitments, weighting servers, capacity, BTU power usage, Electricity cost etc.)
 
Any variation of Load balancing between cloud regions (EC2-VA and EC2-OR), different cloud vendors (EC2 and Rackspace) and CDNs are all fully supported. 
 
Openmix Load Balancing App Implementation – Please see our GitHub repository https://github.com/cedexis/openmixapplib/wiki
Example Openmix Application Library - http://developers.cedexis.com/

## Install Cedexis

Install the Cedexis add-on for each app that you want to load balance.  

## Billing

Cedexis is currently offering up to 250,000 monthly load balancing queries to Appfog service users free of charge.  If calendar monthly usage exceeds 250,000 load balancing queries, Cedexis will contact you at the email provided with your account, to review Cedexis pricing and to establish monthly billing on your account if appropriate.
