getting-started/af-cli/index.markdown, before:

---
title: AF CLI Tool
weight: 2
description: "Code deployment made easy."
---

## AF CLI Tool

`af` is based on CloudFoundry's `vmc` but includes features specific to AppFog and has the default target set to AppFog's service. Check out [the GitHub repo](https://github.com/appfog/af).

* [Installation](#installation)
    * [Mac OS X and Linux](#max-os-x-linux)
    * [Windows](#af-cli-install-windows)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Getting Started](#af-cli-getting-started)
* [Apps](#apps)
    * [Application Creation](#app-creation)
    * [Application Operations](#app-ops)
    * [Application Updates](#app-updates)
    * [Application Information](#app-info)
    * [Application Download](#app-download)
    * [Application Environment](#app-env)
    * [Services](#services)
    * [Administration](#admin)
    * [System](#system)
    * [Misc](#misc)
    * [Help](#help)

## Installation {#installation}

The `af` command line tool is written in Ruby and installed as a gem: 

### Mac OS X and Linux {#max-os-x-linux}

    $ gem install af

Note: `af` requires Ruby 1.8.7 or newer.

If you're on Mac OS X 10.7 Lion and you're having trouble, you may have to do the following:

1. Install Xcode 4.3 and the Xcode command line tools (use the "downloads" preference pane to download the command line tools).

2. [Install homebrew](https://github.com/mxcl/homebrew/wiki/Installation).

3. Install `libksba` with homebrew.

    `$ brew install libksba`


4. [Install RVM](https://rvm.io/rvm/install/).

5. Install Ruby 1.9.3:

    `$ rvm install ruby-1.9.3`
    `$ rvm use 1.9.3`


5. Install `af`

    `$ gem install af`
    `$ af login`
    

### Windows {#af-cli-install-windows}

Download and install [Ruby Installer for Windows](http://rubyinstaller.org/). The installer already includes RubyGems.

Be sure you use the Ruby-enabled command prompt window when you later install and use `af`. You access this command prompt from the Windows Start menu (All Programs > Ruby <version> > Start Command Prompt with Ruby).

Finally, update RubyGems from the Ruby Command Prompt:

    $ gem update --system
    $ gem install af

Login with:

    $ af login

Finally from within your source code directory:

    $ af update hello-node

## Getting Started {#af-cli-getting-started}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">
<tr>
    <td><code>target [url]                                            </code></td><td>Reports current target or sets a new target</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><code>login  [email] [--email, --passwd]                      </code></td><td>Login</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><code>info                                                    </code></td><td>System and account information</td>
</tr>
</table>

## Apps {#apps}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">
<tr>
    <td><code>apps                                                    </code></td><td>List deployed applications</td>
</tr>
</table>

### Application Creation {#app-creation}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<tr><td><code>push [appname]                                          </code></td><td>Create, push, map, and start a new application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>push [appname] --infra                                  </code></td><td>Push application to specificed infrastructure</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>push [appname] --path                                   </code></td><td>Push application from specified path</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>push [appname] --url                                    </code></td><td>Set the url for the application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>push [appname] --instances &lt;N>                       </code></td><td>Set the expected number <code>&lt;N></code> of instances</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>push [appname] --mem M                                  </code></td><td>Set the memory reservation for the application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>push [appname] --runtime RUNTIME                        </code></td><td>Set the runtime to use for the application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>push [appname] --no-start                               </code></td><td>Do not auto-start the application</td></tr>

</table>

### Application Operations {#app-ops}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<tr><td><code>start &lt;appname>                                      </code></td><td>Start the application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>stop  &lt;appname>                                      </code></td><td>Stop the application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>restart &lt;appname>                                    </code></td><td>Restart the application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>delete &lt;appname>                                     </code></td><td>Delete the application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>clone &lt;src-app> &lt;dest-app> [infra]                </code></td><td>Clone the application and services</td></tr>

</table>

### Application Updates {#app-updates}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<tr><td><code>update &lt;appname> [--path]                            </code></td><td>Update the application bits</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>mem &lt;appname> [memsize]                              </code></td><td>Update the memory reservation for an application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>map &lt;appname> &lt;url>                               </code></td><td>Register the application to the url</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>unmap &lt;appname> &lt;url>                             </code></td><td>Unregister the application from the url</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>instances &lt;appname> &lt;num|delta>                   </code></td><td>Scale the application instances up or down</td></tr>

</table>

### Application Information {#app-info}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<tr><td><code>crashes &lt;appname>                                    </code></td><td>List recent application crashes</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>crashlogs &lt;appname>                                  </code></td><td>Display log information for crashed applications</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>logs &lt;appname> [--all]                               </code></td><td>Display log information for the application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>files &lt;appname> [path] [--all]                       </code></td><td>Display directory listing or file download for path</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>stats &lt;appname>                                      </code></td><td>Display resource usage for the application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>instances &lt;appname>                                  </code></td><td>List application instances</td></tr>

</table>

### Application Download {#app-download}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<tr><td><code>pull &lt;appname> [path]                                </code></td><td>Downloads last pushed source to &lt;appname> or [path]</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>download &lt;appname> [path]                            </code></td><td>Downloads last pushed source to zipfile</td></tr>

</table>

### Application Environment {#app-env}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<tr><td><code>env &lt;appname>                                        </code></td><td>List application environment variables</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>env-add &lt;appname> &lt;variable[=]value>              </code></td><td>Add an environment variable to an application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>env-del &lt;appname> &lt;variable>                      </code></td><td>Delete an environment variable to an application</td></tr>

</table>

### Services {#services}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<tr><td><code>services                                                </code></td><td>Lists of services available and provisioned</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>create-service &lt;service> [--name,--bind]             </code></td><td>Create a provisioned service</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>create-service &lt;service> --infra                     </code></td><td>Create a provisioned service on a specified infrastructure</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>create-service &lt;service> &lt;name>                   </code></td><td>Create a provisioned service and assign it &lt;name></td></tr>
<tr><td><code>create-service &lt;service> &lt;name> &lt;app>          </code></td><td>Create a provisioned service and assign it &lt;name>, and bind to &lt;app></td></tr>
<tr><td><code>delete-service [servicename]                            </code></td><td>Delete a provisioned service</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>bind-service &lt;servicename> &lt;appname>              </code></td><td>Bind a service to an application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>unbind-service &lt;servicename> &lt;appname>            </code></td><td>Unbind service from the application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>clone-services &lt;src-app> &lt;dest-app>               </code></td><td>Clone service bindings from &lt;src-app> application to &lt;dest-app></td></tr>
<tr><td><code>export-service &lt;service>                             </code></td><td>Export data from a specified service</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>import-service &lt;service> &lt;url>                    </code></td><td>Import data to a specified service</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>tunnel &lt;servicename> [--port]                        </code></td><td>Create a local tunnel to a remote service</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>tunnel &lt;servicename> &lt;clientcmd>                  </code></td><td>Create a local tunnel to a remote service and start a local client</td></tr>

</table>

### Administration {#admin}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<tr><td><code>user                                                    </code></td><td>Display user account information</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>passwd                                                  </code></td><td>Change the password for the current user</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>logout                                                  </code></td><td>Logs current user out of the target system</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>add-user [--email, --passwd]                            </code></td><td>Register a new user (requires admin privileges)</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>delete-user &lt;user>                                   </code></td><td>Delete a user and all apps and services (requires admin privileges)</td></tr>

</table>

### System {#system}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<tr><td><code>runtimes                                                </code></td><td>Display the supported runtimes of the target system</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>frameworks                                              </code></td><td>Display the recognized frameworks of the target system</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>infras                                                  </code></td><td>Display the available infrastructures</td></tr>

</table>

### Misc {#misc}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<tr><td><code>aliases                                                  </code></td><td>List aliases</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>alias &lt;alias[=]command>                               </code></td><td>Create an alias for a command</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>unalias &lt;alias>                                       </code></td><td>Remove an alias</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>targets                                                  </code></td><td>List known targets and associated authorization tokens</td></tr>

</table>

### Help {#help}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<tr><td><code>help [command]                                           </code></td><td>Get general help or help on a specific command</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>help options                                             </code></td><td>Get help on available options</td></tr>

</table>

Commit message:

Updated info and cleaned up look a bit.
Updated the information regarding AF and Caldecott gem installations and cleaned up the code blocks a bit.

getting-started/af-cli/index.markdown, after:

---
title: AF CLI Tool
weight: 2
description: "Code deployment made easy."
---

## AF CLI Tool

`af` is based on CloudFoundry's `vmc` but includes features specific to AppFog and has the default target set to AppFog's service. Check out [the GitHub repo](https://github.com/appfog/af).

* [Installation](#installation)
    * [Mac OS X and Linux](#max-os-x-linux)
    * [Windows](#af-cli-install-windows)
    * [Caldecott](#caldecott)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Getting Started](#af-cli-getting-started)
* [Apps](#apps)
    * [Application Creation](#app-creation)
    * [Application Operations](#app-ops)
    * [Application Updates](#app-updates)
    * [Application Information](#app-info)
    * [Application Download](#app-download)
    * [Application Environment](#app-env)
    * [Services](#services)
    * [Administration](#admin)
    * [System](#system)
    * [Misc](#misc)
    * [Help](#help)

## Installation of AF Gem {#installation}

The `af` command line tool is written in Ruby and installed as a gem: 

### Mac OS X and Linux {#max-os-x-linux}

    $ gem install af

Note: `af` requires Ruby 1.8.7 or 1.9.3. Anything higher can cause problems. Use RVM or Rbenv to manage your ruby versions as shown on step 4.

If you're on Mac OS X 10.7 Lion and you're having trouble, you may have to do the following:

1. Install Xcode 4.3 and the Xcode command line tools (use the "downloads" preference pane to download the command line tools).

2. [Install homebrew](https://github.com/mxcl/homebrew/wiki/Installation).

3. Install `libksba` with homebrew.

   `$ brew install libksba`


4. [Install RVM](https://rvm.io/rvm/install/).

5. Install Ruby 1.9.3:

   ```
   $ rvm install ruby-1.9.3
   $ rvm use 1.9.3
   ```


5. Install `af`

   ```
   $ gem install af
   $ af login
   ```
    

### Windows {#af-cli-install-windows}

Download and install [Ruby Installer for Windows](http://rubyinstaller.org/). The installer already includes RubyGems.

Be sure you use the Ruby-enabled command prompt window when you later install and use `af`. You access this command prompt from the Windows Start menu (All Programs > Ruby <version> > Start Command Prompt with Ruby).

Finally, update RubyGems from the Ruby Command Prompt:

   ```
   $ gem update --system
   $ gem install af
   ```

Login with:

   ```
   $ af login
   ```

Finally from within your source code directory:

   ```
   $ af update hello-node
   ```
   
## [Caldecott](https://rubygems.org/gems/caldecott) {#caldecott}

   You'll need to have Caldecott installed to be able tunnel into your services and access them locally.
   To install Caldecott, you may need to first install the [Ruby Bundler](http://ruby.about.com/od/bundler/ss/What-Is-Bundler.htm) and the [Ruby      DevKit](http://rubyinstaller.org/add-ons/devkit/).

## Getting Started {#af-cli-getting-started}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">
<tr>
    <td><code>target [url]                                            </code></td><td>Reports current target or sets a new target</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><code>login  [email] [--email, --passwd]                      </code></td><td>Login</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><code>info                                                    </code></td><td>System and account information</td>
</tr>
</table>

## Apps {#apps}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">
<tr>
    <td><code>apps                                                    </code></td><td>List deployed applications</td>
</tr>
</table>

### Application Creation {#app-creation}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<tr><td><code>push [appname]                                          </code></td><td>Create, push, map, and start a new application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>push [appname] --infra                                  </code></td><td>Push application to specificed infrastructure</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>push [appname] --path                                   </code></td><td>Push application from specified path</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>push [appname] --url                                    </code></td><td>Set the url for the application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>push [appname] --instances &lt;N>                       </code></td><td>Set the expected number <code>&lt;N></code> of instances</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>push [appname] --mem M                                  </code></td><td>Set the memory reservation for the application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>push [appname] --runtime RUNTIME                        </code></td><td>Set the runtime to use for the application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>push [appname] --no-start                               </code></td><td>Do not auto-start the application</td></tr>

</table>

### Application Operations {#app-ops}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<tr><td><code>start &lt;appname>                                      </code></td><td>Start the application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>stop  &lt;appname>                                      </code></td><td>Stop the application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>restart &lt;appname>                                    </code></td><td>Restart the application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>delete &lt;appname>                                     </code></td><td>Delete the application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>clone &lt;src-app> &lt;dest-app> [infra]                </code></td><td>Clone the application and services</td></tr>

</table>

### Application Updates {#app-updates}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<tr><td><code>update &lt;appname> [--path]                            </code></td><td>Update the application bits</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>mem &lt;appname> [memsize]                              </code></td><td>Update the memory reservation for an application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>map &lt;appname> &lt;url>                               </code></td><td>Register the application to the url</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>unmap &lt;appname> &lt;url>                             </code></td><td>Unregister the application from the url</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>instances &lt;appname> &lt;num|delta>                   </code></td><td>Scale the application instances up or down</td></tr>

</table>

### Application Information {#app-info}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<tr><td><code>crashes &lt;appname>                                    </code></td><td>List recent application crashes</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>crashlogs &lt;appname>                                  </code></td><td>Display log information for crashed applications</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>logs &lt;appname> [--all]                               </code></td><td>Display log information for the application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>files &lt;appname> [path] [--all]                       </code></td><td>Display directory listing or file download for path</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>stats &lt;appname>                                      </code></td><td>Display resource usage for the application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>instances &lt;appname>                                  </code></td><td>List application instances</td></tr>

</table>

### Application Download {#app-download}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<tr><td><code>pull &lt;appname> [path]                                </code></td><td>Downloads last pushed source to &lt;appname> or [path]</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>download &lt;appname> [path]                            </code></td><td>Downloads last pushed source to zipfile</td></tr>

</table>

### Application Environment {#app-env}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<tr><td><code>env &lt;appname>                                        </code></td><td>List application environment variables</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>env-add &lt;appname> &lt;variable[=]value>              </code></td><td>Add an environment variable to an application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>env-del &lt;appname> &lt;variable>                      </code></td><td>Delete an environment variable to an application</td></tr>

</table>

### Services {#services}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<tr><td><code>services                                                </code></td><td>Lists of services available and provisioned</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>create-service &lt;service> [--name,--bind]             </code></td><td>Create a provisioned service</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>create-service &lt;service> --infra                     </code></td><td>Create a provisioned service on a specified infrastructure</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>create-service &lt;service> &lt;name>                   </code></td><td>Create a provisioned service and assign it &lt;name></td></tr>
<tr><td><code>create-service &lt;service> &lt;name> &lt;app>          </code></td><td>Create a provisioned service and assign it &lt;name>, and bind to &lt;app></td></tr>
<tr><td><code>delete-service [servicename]                            </code></td><td>Delete a provisioned service</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>bind-service &lt;servicename> &lt;appname>              </code></td><td>Bind a service to an application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>unbind-service &lt;servicename> &lt;appname>            </code></td><td>Unbind service from the application</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>clone-services &lt;src-app> &lt;dest-app>               </code></td><td>Clone service bindings from &lt;src-app> application to &lt;dest-app></td></tr>
<tr><td><code>export-service &lt;service>                             </code></td><td>Export data from a specified service</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>import-service &lt;service> &lt;url>                    </code></td><td>Import data to a specified service</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>tunnel &lt;servicename> [--port]                        </code></td><td>Create a local tunnel to a remote service</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>tunnel &lt;servicename> &lt;clientcmd>                  </code></td><td>Create a local tunnel to a remote service and start a local client</td></tr>

</table>

### Administration {#admin}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<tr><td><code>user                                                    </code></td><td>Display user account information</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>passwd                                                  </code></td><td>Change the password for the current user</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>logout                                                  </code></td><td>Logs current user out of the target system</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>add-user [--email, --passwd]                            </code></td><td>Register a new user (requires admin privileges)</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>delete-user &lt;user>                                   </code></td><td>Delete a user and all apps and services (requires admin privileges)</td></tr>

</table>

### System {#system}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<tr><td><code>runtimes                                                </code></td><td>Display the supported runtimes of the target system</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>frameworks                                              </code></td><td>Display the recognized frameworks of the target system</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>infras                                                  </code></td><td>Display the available infrastructures</td></tr>

</table>

### Misc {#misc}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<tr><td><code>aliases                                                  </code></td><td>List aliases</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>alias &lt;alias[=]command>                               </code></td><td>Create an alias for a command</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>unalias &lt;alias>                                       </code></td><td>Remove an alias</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>targets                                                  </code></td><td>List known targets and associated authorization tokens</td></tr>

</table>

### Help {#help}

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<tr><td><code>help [command]                                           </code></td><td>Get general help or help on a specific command</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>help options                                             </code></td><td>Get help on available options</td></tr>

</table>
